Let's talk a little bit about some of
the other parts that are not necessarily
on the DOM.
One of things I think I alluded to
earlier, I think I said it while we were
recording, might have been during a break,
but if not so I'll repeat it.
Is that there are other parts of
the page in the browser that aren't
necessarily in the DOM.
So like querying for them is not always
going to be the be all and end all.
Luckily, we have a bunch
of different abilities
to get other information from the browser.
Namely, we do have access
to the window object.
We do have access to the document
object itself, right?
And like document.title is
whatever the name of the tab or
the window title is,
the title attribute, right?
That's not in the body.
But it is a thing that we
can kinda get ourselves.
If we wanna figure out whether or
not navigator has that online or
not, checking like the battery
status API whatever.
If you needed to check those things or
set them or as we'll see later, mock or
stub them to be different values, you do
have access to all of those things for
the purposes of writing your tests.
We're gonna stick it out with some of
the more common ones that you might use,
right?
So I have the situation where as they
navigate through the app it's a client
side app, I want to make sure that
the title of the page is meaningful.
It shouldn't just say
10 portal at the top.
It should say 10 portals and
maybe it's your workflow executions or
your event history or whatever page and
that should change as you navigate
around this single page application.
Also doing certain actions, right?
We have it, so
we have a bunch of filters like you saw
in the previous secret item menu thing,
right?
I have it set so that if you change any of
the query for sorting and filtering your
workflow executions, you change them on
the filter, it changes the query pram.
If you visit that page,
it sets the filters automatically.
That way if you'd like hey,
I only want workflow executions
from the last seven days,
sorted by search and search, right?
And you want to share that as a bookmark
it as if you go back to or share with one
of your co workers or something along
those lines it's serialized in the URL.
So I need to be able to test
that these things work.
Because even managing the query params as
you navigate around is actually a little
bit trickier than one might want it to be.
So we have access to site title,
which is document.title.
There is site a document,
site out window, right?
All of the use cases would
be very contrived, but
like if you do need access to something
on there, you can absolutely get it.
But we'll look a little bit at
site.title and site.location.
Location does require an argument which
is basically an alias to window.location.
But it's like which one of
those properties do you want?
So you say site.location you can get like.
In a lot of cases I almost always
want either the path name or
the search params which are similar
to query params in this case.
But if you did want something else
along the way, you can get that and
two string are effectively the full URL,
right?
So you can be like hey,
it should include this piece in it.
So if we're on this page,
it should include this, right?
Or the query params should have
this key equal sign, this value.
If I've manipulated the page
in such a way, right?
You test all those things
to make sure that they,
there's other things that
are quietly break, right?
And then all of a sudden your app
is not behaving as you expected.
So let's go take a look at that.
We'll go into yet another application.
This one's got a bunch of things.
Let's take a quick second
to just admire it.
So this page, it does have
the ability to sign in and sign out.
And we have the different pages so
on and so forth,
where we might want to see
are we on the right path.
There will be cases where if they
go to slash posts and they are not
logged in they will get redirected
back to the sign in page, right?
So functionality like that is not always
a thing that you maybe, you'd be like,
okay, they should see the sign in button.
And that is correlated with
them being on the sign in page.
But not really right versus
no there on the URL for
signing in is a much
better test in this case.
So how would we go about doing that?
So let's take a look.
So we'll go over seven and
I will do a few of them and
then you can take a look as well.
The other part that we're going to
look at is form validation, right?
Either you're using the native
DOM validation logic.
If you put a require they can't
submit the form without it or
you have some bespoke maybe your server
side rendering apparatus is doing it.
Something along those lines to make sure
there's different customizations in there.
I'm going to just for
the sake of this workshop,
I'm gonna assume that we're gonna use
regular built in DOM form validation.
But the same principles apply if
you were doing it by hand as well.
So what we want to see is that
when we go to echo chamber
that it shouldn't just
be like cybers workshop.
It should be like echo chamber and
then like that's part of this like,
cybers workout.
This is a social media app where you
can only talk to yourself, just FYI.
It's a database,
you just yell into the void.
You can make multiple accounts and
get into fights with yourself.
But there's nobody else listening.
And so as opposed to just either,
admit some stuff to yourself that
maybe something you got to think about or
just really just rant.
You can have it, you can use this
application as much as you want.
You have my blessing.
So let's go make sure that
the title is what we think it is.
This is simply as simple as doing
site title which is going to in that
chain give us back the title, right?
So in this point we're
gonna say that it should,
I just care that it should
contain echo chamber.
Now there might be a world
where it's like hey,
they're on it's like account
colon in the username, right?
You could use a regex in here and you
would use match instead of contain, right?
And you would pass it a regex,
I think depends on what you want to do
as you let autocomplete be your friend.
So you just type this, just start
typing whatever you think it is.
And you'll probably find what you
were looking for at some point.
So we've got them there as well.
We're gonna go with contains in this case.
So make sure that that passes, so
we'll need to go back to Cypress.
I'll stop it.
Let's go back to echo chamber
in this case, let us start up.
All right, so it should have
the title the application there.
So go visit echo chamber.
Expected echo chamber/Cypress, front and
masters to include echo chamber and
that it does.
Other thing that we're going to deal
with a little bit as well is you
can also see that this made
an API call at some point, right?
So you'll be able to see all those without
looking at your network tab as well.
And we'll talk about how to either
intercept those, mock them out or
just watch them and spy on them and
stuff along those lines.
And as we go through as well.
The other thing we wanted to do
was when they click on sign in,
it should take them to the sign in page.
And you can guess who's
gonna do the other one?
I'm not, I won't ruin it.
I won't ruin the surprise for you,
but I'll do the first one real quick.
And so they're going to
navigate to just the core page.
As they do that, let's see what happens.
Just click on that, okay?
You end up just the raw HTML the raw page
where you're asked to go sign in sign up.
So you could write a test that says like
does this have this page on it, right?
That they weren't redirected does it
say the right thing so on so forth.
We're not going to do that right now.
We're just going to say, let's go take
a look at what this button is called.
That's cool,
it's called data test sign in.
That's a good name.
So we'll go in there.
And we'll say, go ahead and
click on that link.
And then we say hey, Cypress,
we're gonna say go get the location.
And nice that autocomplete
is your friend here,
will say that the path name
now you got some choices.
You can go with exactly to equal that,
right?
How's that?
Should equal no What I
would probably do for
this one is like it should just end with,
it should contain.
Or I think there's an ends with.
Let's try that one a second
echo chamber/ sign in.
So that was the test that we had in this
case, what it says to only just verify.
So you can see I'm on that page.
That's what the URL is.
I believe I can do.
So thought there was an worth, maybe not.
But you could theoretically also
make sure that just has yeah.
If you don't necessarily, cuz equal not
work like the query parameter, right?
So if you have a query parameter
something along those lines,
not gonna equal that anymore.
At which point you just
want to make sure that it
has the part of the URL that you want.
It all depends on your use case.
So you can like make the best decision for
you